Education Challenges
Updated April 2025

ConnectEd: Phone-based targeted instruction tutoring program
We challenge you to design a social enterprise that delivers ConnectEd, a high-access, low-cost
phone based innovation to deliver remedial education to underserved primary-aged learners in
low- and middle-income countries. ConnectEd is an educational program designed to improve
primary grade literacy and numeracy. D-Prize will award up to $20,000 to teams with a plan to
launch a three-month pilot of this work serving 200-300 primary-aged learners with a long-term
vision to scale country-wide.

The Poverty Problem
Students worldwide are sitting in classrooms but are not learning. In many countries, a majority
of students are below grade level and automatically move to subsequent grades without
acquiring basic numeracy and literacy skills. The abilities to read, write, and do mathematics are
foundational skills for all future learning.

Meanwhile, millions of children continue to experience disruptions to schooling every year,
exacerbating an ongoing learning crisis. Disruptions such as natural disasters, conflict, illness,
and education system failure hinder education access for nearly 250 million children globally.

Children in low resource settings disproportionately lack access to resources (internet,
computers, smartphones, print materials) that enable remote learning. Covid-19, which caused
in-person school closures for 141 days globally between February 2020 and 2022, acutely
demonstrated the inadequacies of remote schooling.

Beyond crises, marginalized children experience substantial learning loss as a result of teacher
absences and routine school closure, such as school holidays and breaks. Uncovering the best
methods to reach students in school and falling behind as well as those affected by disruptions
and more routine closures would represent a significant step towards building resilient and
effective education systems on a global level.

The Proven Intervention
To address these challenges, education systems need to build greater resilience by developing,
testing, and utilizing proven solutions that are low-cost, easy-to-use, readily deployable, and
adaptable across contexts.

A proven solution to address learning loss – whether experienced by students in school not
learning the basics or children out-of-school affected by disruptions – is using widely accessible
basic mobile phones to deliver 1:1 instruction to students remotely. Known as ConnectEd, the
solution is a remote, targeted, mobile phone-based education intervention that cost-effectively
brings trained tutors to students where they are. The program capitalizes on the near
universality of mobile phones, reaching students in underserved and remote areas, and those
unable to reach school due to disruptions and displacement.

Originally developed and tested by Youth Impact in Botswana, the intervention was studied in
randomized controlled trials (RCT) in five additional countries (Kenya, Nepal, India, Uganda and
the Philippines) between 2021-2022. Results demonstrated that nearly 65% of students enrolled
in ConnectEd mastered all basic operations indicating a significant impact on learning
outcomes. The program is among the most cost-effective education interventions available
showing to produce 3.4 Learning Adjusted Years of Schooling (LAYS) per $100. Moreover
ConnectEd builds on a broader evidence base showing tutoring and targeted instruction
approaches are some of the most effective education interventions.

Since then, ConnectEd has been subject to over 20 additional rapid impact assessments in
multiple delivery contexts, including as a supplement to ongoing schooling delivered by
government teachers. It is now being implemented by local organizations in Afghanistan,
Botswana, Ethiopia, India, Namibia, Pakistan, Philippines and Somalia.

Your Distribution Challenge
D-Prize will award up to $20,000 to teams that can create a new organization that delivers the
ConnectEd catch up program to students who otherwise would fall behind. You must have a
vision to reach 25,000 learners within five years. Our award is meant to enable the first step
toward this vision by supporting a small test pilot of your idea, that helps anywhere from
200-300 students.

Please note: We are challenging you to replicate and deliver the proven ConnectEd program.
Proposals to develop new programs will not be considered.

Designing Your Social Enterprise
There are several challenges an organization implementing ConnectEd will need to address.
We suggest focusing your pilot on testing approaches to address these challenges.

1. What is your ConnectEd implementation model? ConnectEd can be delivered in a
variety of settings and in a variety of ways – each dependent on factors that are unique
to the delivery context. Some of the questions that will be important to consider include:
○ Who will deliver the sessions – will it be teachers, tutors, volunteers, interns or
others?
○ When and where will it be delivered – ongoing with the school term or during
school breaks? During the school calendar and/or when there are class
suspensions or breaks?
○ Depending on the implementation timing and tutor, what is a reasonable
instructor:student ratio?
○ What will be the support structure for those who are delivering ConnectEd, and in
what ways that will be scalable and sustainable?

2. How will you establish a strong data collection system for monitoring, feedback and
learning? Strong data systems for monitoring and feedback are a core component of
ConnectEd and have been identified as necessary for effective implementation. We've
found that the most effective systems are designed to be used by those involved with
delivering ConnectEd to improve program quality and outcomes. Some of the questions
that will be important to consider include:
○ What data will be most essential to collect and analyze?
○ How will you ensure instruction is well targeted to student learning levels?
○ Who will be responsible for gathering and submitting data?
○ What tools and instruments will be used?
○ Who will analyze the data and how will results and learning be shared?
○ Are there existing government data systems that can be leveraged?

3. How do you gain government support at all levels? Engaging with all levels of an existing
education system is needed–from the national to regional to local bodies. This may
range from:
○ Government approval at a central level
○ Engagement with regional departments
○ Close collaboration with schools

4. How will ConnectEd be scaled and sustained? Summarize the strategy for bringing
ConnectEd to 25,000 learners over the next five years while ensuring impact is
sustained. This includes:
○ What key elements or conditions in the broader system are likely to be significant
assets or challenges to scaling?
○ What partnerships are in place or are needed to support scaling?
○ Are there any related existing approaches where coordination and learning will
be necessary?
○ Where might resources be mobilized to establish a longer-term funding base?
○ Are there any unintended negative consequences that may result from scaling?

Context Conditions
● D-Prize aims to support ventures that work to reach the most underserved children. This
generally means learners who lack reliable internet access. We recommend your idea
tailor itself to these learners, and avoid plans that require stable internet access.
● Similarly, high-technology tools or platforms that would be unavailable or unsustainable
in low-resource contexts should be avoided as well.

Additional Support
With successful applicants/in some circumstances, Youth Impact is available to provide
technical assistance and support as relevant. 