All the information we have about Tembo Education:
VISION: Maximize human potential, via children.
MISSION: The largest educator in the world for 0-6 aged children. 
GOAL: Educate 100M children.
HOW: We educate 0-6 year old children around the world, via text messages, WhatsApp, and FB Messenger. This increases parent engagement and decreases screen-time because we send one curriculum activity per day to the parent's phone and the parent educates their child on that day's activity. We're currently in 7 countries and 5 languages.
Parents of 0-6 year old children (globally), including pregnant women since we start prenatal, at week 13 in the mother's womb. 
Interested in pilot program or innovation grants
Also interested in emergency grants. For example: helped educate the Syrian refugees so our services can reach populations where they have no schooling or education like war-time in Palestine, Syria, Yemen, etc.
Additional information from their website:
Founded in 2015, Tembo Education Group utilizes technology and infrastructure to tackle the unmet need of our times: early childhood education. We focus on children ages 0 to 6, an instrumental time that creates the building blocks of the rest of a person's life. The mission of Tembo Education Group is to deliver a global, scalable solution for two pressing problems of modern education: access and screen dependency.
We work to develop minds between the ages of 0 to 6 across the developed and developing worlds through the accessible delivery of early childhood education (or ECE). Early childhood is a crucial time for the development of a child and a parent. Harvard University research shows that 86-98% of a child’s vocabulary is derived from their parents. Vocabulary growth corresponds with higher test scores, mental processing speed and language learning abilities. Additionally, studies have found that every dollar invested in ECE results in a return on investment of $7-$13. We want the hundreds of millions of children ages 0 to 6 in the developing world to reach their full cognitive potential.We partner with NGOs, telecoms, and other companies to deliver our learning platform globally and reach markets where quality, curriculum-based early childhood learning is often financially and geographically inaccessible. In the developing world, we leverage these relationships to create incentives for learning, such as free data and airtime.We have worked with several leading organizations on pilot studies with our text-based learning platform. Additionally, we offer bespoke learning solutions for older children and adult learning contexts. 
At Tembo Education, we operate globally to provide high-quality education and support to diverse communities worldwide. Our platform is designed for seamless accessibility, offering multilingual support to ensure effective communication for all. By bridging cultures and breaking language barriers, we empower individuals and organizations to learn, grow, and thrive—wherever they are.
Social impact initiatives which already existed in our first target demographic, Sub-Saharan Africa, specifically Nigeria, shelter, clothes and food were often provided, but education was not. Ages 0-6 are the most imperative for brain development. By providing education to children during the most pivotal time for their development, we give them the opportunity to succeed not only in education, but in life, by teaching them basic social and critical skills which can be applied and leveraged for the rest of their lives.

Skip to Content
Tembo Education
Home
About
Impact
Global
Research
Log In
SIGN UP

ABOUT US
Founded in 2015, Tembo Education Group utilizes technology and infrastructure to tackle the unmet need of our times: early childhood education. We focus on children ages 0 to 6, an instrumental time that creates the building blocks of the rest of a person's life. The mission of Tembo Education Group is to deliver a global, scalable solution for two pressing problems of modern education: access and screen dependency.



We work to develop minds between the ages of 0 to 6 across the developed and developing worlds through the accessible delivery of early childhood education (or ECE). Early childhood is a crucial time for the development of a child and a parent. Harvard University research shows that 86-98% of a child’s vocabulary is derived from their parents. Vocabulary growth corresponds with higher test scores, mental processing speed and language learning abilities. Additionally, studies have found that every dollar invested in ECE results in a return on investment of $7-$13. We want the hundreds of millions of children ages 0 to 6 in the developing world to reach their full cognitive potential.

SOCIAL IMPACT



We partner with NGOs, telecoms, and other companies to deliver our learning platform globally and reach markets where quality, curriculum-based early childhood learning is often financially and geographically inaccessible. In the developing world, we leverage these relationships to create incentives for learning, such as free data and airtime.

We have worked with several leading organizations on pilot studies with our text-based learning platform. Additionally, we offer bespoke learning solutions for older children and adult learning contexts. If you would like to learn more, please contact us.

PARTNERSHIPS

Receive expert advice, fun activities, and toddler-friendly strategies straight to your inbox.

Get Free Parenting Tips

Skip to Content
Tembo Education
Home
About
Impact
Global
Research
Log In
SIGN UP
RESEARCH

Our convenient, text-based ECE (Early Childhood Education) is derived from studies by leading researchers. We employ evidence-based learning to maximize your child's potential.


Text-Based Learning Studies


WHY ECE

New research shows that early education starting from birth to age six is the critical and unmet need of this century.

Studies have shown that every dollar invested in early childhood education results in a return on investment of $7-$13.

[Read More]

TEMBO RESULTS:

What PARENTS Say…

NPS (Net Promoter Score, which is the gold standard for measuring results.


Tembo has an 80.5% NPS Parent Score


100% of Parents agree Tembo increases child’s performance in school


100% of Parents agree Tembo increases child’s knowledge and social/emotional bond


97% of Parents agree they recommend Tembo to friends and family

TEMBO RESULTS:

What TEACHERS Say…

NPS (Net Promoter Score, which is the gold standard for measuring results.)


Tembo has a 97% NPS Teacher Score


96% of Teachers agree Tembo increases child’s School-Readiness


97% of Teachers agree Tembo increases child’s knowledge and social / emotional bond


100% of Teachers agree they recommend Tembo to friends and family

Convenience & Ease of Understanding
(Reported by Parents)

100% agree activities are easy to read & understand


97.4% agree performing activities with children is easy


100% agree activities are fun to engage with child


89.7% agree activities can be done with everyday household items.

Child’s Favorite Activities

(Reported by Parents)

Play-based Game Activities


Social Engagement (1-on-1, group activities)


Specificity of Food / Nutrition


Gross & Fine Motor Skills (yoga, moving around, body parts


Involving objects (puzzles, ball playing, etc.)

Child’s Favorite Activities

(Reported by Teachers)

Creative/art activities (colors, drawings, etc.)


Group/Social (games, group activities)


Involving objects (puzzle, ball playing, etc.)


Emotional (describing family, etc.)


Language (singing, alphabet, stories, rhyming, etc.)


Numeracy (counting, etc.)


Motor (moving around, body parts)


1-on-1 (non-group activities)

Between the various facets of modern life, you have less time, making it increasingly difficult to educate your child at home. With an endless number of apps and more information than ever at your fingertips, it is simplify inconvenient and overwhelming for parents to find trustworthy information.
This is why our team at Tembo Education created a convenient and accessible solution that doesn't add to your child's screen time. Our activities create successful learning outcomes and opportunities for you to meaningfully bond with your child in just 15 minutes a day.
Quality Learning for Your Child
Get a sample activity and find out what Tembo Education can do for you and your child.
Receive expert advice, fun activities, and toddler-friendly strategies straight to your inbox.

